Dhruv Shrivastava

dhruvshrivastava18

iOS Engineer

dhruvshrivastava18
Dhruv_1802

 8890725625  dhruvshrivastava18@gmail.com

Experience
Swipe (YC S21)
SDE - I (iOS)
 https://bit.ly/swipe-ios

Jan 24 - Present
Hyderabad, Telangana

Founding member and responsible for architecting and building the iOS app for Swipe from scratch.
Used Kotlin Multiplatform (KMP) to reuse business logic from the existing Android codebase.
Used concurrency to handle complex calculations, making the invoice creation flow 2.5x faster than existing Android
app.
In stress test, iOS version can gracefully handle 150X more products in an invoice (with calculations) than Android & Web.
Developed comprehensive design libraries to standardize UI components, ensuring consistent branding and faster
feature rollouts.
Implemented real-time WebSocket communication in the mobile app, enabling instant synchronization with the web
platform for a cohesive multi-device experience.
Google Summer of Code, MIT App Inventor
iOS Developer
 https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2023/projects/aeUHF4rI

April 23 - Sep 23
Remote

Developed and enhanced various essential iOS components, including File, CircularProgress, LinearProgressbar, and
Snackbar, ensuring smooth and interactive user experiences.
Designed and implemented user-friendly interfaces for key components such as TabLayout and CardView, optimizing
navigation and visual appeal.
Implemented advanced functionality for applications through components like Barometer, MagneticFieldSensor and
ProximitySensor, adding valuable features and enhancing user engagement.
Successfully integrated system-level functionalities by working on WiFiAdmin, BluetoothAdmin, and FingerPrint (Touch
ID and Face ID), improving connectivity, security, and overall user satisfaction.
Coderoofs IT Solutions
iOS Developer Intern
 https://coderoofs.com/

October 22 - Feb 23
Remote

Developed iOS mobile applications from design to deployment, ensuring high quality and performance standards were
met.
Worked collaboratively with design teams to identify and define app features that met customer needs and
expectations.
Proactively identified and resolved potential problems and bottlenecks during the development cycle to deliver polished,
bug-free applications.
Projects
Crypto Tracker
Ultimate cryptocurrency companion written in Swift for real-time market data, secure portfolio management, and seamless
user experience.
 https://github.com/dhruvshrivastava18/CryptoTracker
Developed a professional cryptocurrency app with real-time market data for efficient market tracking.
Implemented robust technical features, including MVVM Architecture and Combine framework, ensuring seamless data
flow and communication.
Offered a dynamic user experience with customisable themes and animations while ensuring safety and data
persistence through Core Data and FileManager.
Skills
Technical Skills
Swift, SwiftUI, C++, Python, Git, UIKit Framework, Xcode, Cocoa Touch, MVC, MWM, CoreML, Core Data, Core Animation, User Notifications,
Firebase., Kotlin, KMM

Education
Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University
Computer Science
CGPA: 8.2/10

2020 - 2024
Bachelor of Technology

